docs/developer-guide.rst, before:

pynitrokey Developer Guide
==========================

Linters
-------

We use `flake8`_ for style checks, `black`_ for code formatting, `isort`_ for import sorting and `mypy`_ for static type analysis.  To run all checks, execute ``make check``.  (Before using it for the first time, you have to call ``make init`` to setup a virtual environment and install the required dependencies.)

.. _flake8: https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/
.. _black: https://github.com/psf/black
.. _isort: https://github.com/PyCQA/isort
.. _mypy: https://github.com/python/mypy

mypy is configured to only check annotated code.  If you add new code, please consider adding type annotations and enabling strict checks for your modules in ``pyproject.toml``.

Please make sure that all checks pass for your code before opening a PR.

Signed Commits
--------------

If you have an OpenPGP key, please sign all your commits with it.  We require all commits on the master branch to be signed.  If you don’t have an OpenPGP key, a developer that reviewed your commits will sign them for you.

Commit Hooks
--------------

For the local quick checks of the formatting you can use pre-commit:

- https://pre-commit.com/

Setup:

``
$ pip install pre-commit -U
$ pre-commit install
``

Usage:

- https://pre-commit.com/#usage

Checks configured in ``.pre-commit-config.yaml`` will be executed before each commit, and on-demand when calling ``pre-commit`` from the command line.


Design Patterns
---------------

Output and Error Handling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use ``pynitrokey.helpers.local_print`` for printing messages to the user.  This helper method also adds the output to the log file.

To report an error, use ``pynitrokey.helpers.local_critical`` or raise a ``pynitrokey.cli.exceptions.CliException`` (that uses ``local_critical`` internally).  Per default, this adds a support hint to the output that points the user to the log file.

Password Input
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Commands that require a password should first try to read the password from an environment variable.  If the environment variable is not set, they should prompt the user to enter the password.  Passwords must not be passed as a command-line argument.

Commit message:

Document minimum Python version requirements
This patch adds the minimum Python version to the readme and describes
the version requirements in the developer guide.

docs/developer-guide.rst, after:

pynitrokey Developer Guide
==========================

Linters
-------

We use `flake8`_ for style checks, `black`_ for code formatting, `isort`_ for import sorting and `mypy`_ for static type analysis.  To run all checks, execute ``make check``.  (Before using it for the first time, you have to call ``make init`` to setup a virtual environment and install the required dependencies.)

.. _flake8: https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/
.. _black: https://github.com/psf/black
.. _isort: https://github.com/PyCQA/isort
.. _mypy: https://github.com/python/mypy

mypy is configured to only check annotated code.  If you add new code, please consider adding type annotations and enabling strict checks for your modules in ``pyproject.toml``.

Please make sure that all checks pass for your code before opening a PR.

Signed Commits
--------------

If you have an OpenPGP key, please sign all your commits with it.  We require all commits on the master branch to be signed.  If you don’t have an OpenPGP key, a developer that reviewed your commits will sign them for you.

Supported Python Versions
-------------------------

The current minimum required Python version is documented in the readme.  Make sure that your code works with this Python version.  The minimum required Python version is selected to be compatible with the latest Ubuntu LTS and regular releases and with the latest Debian stable release.

Commit Hooks
--------------

For local quick checks of the formatting you can use `pre-commit`_.

.. _pre-commit: https://pre-commit.com/

Setup::

   $ pip install pre-commit -U
   $ pre-commit install

Usage:

- https://pre-commit.com/#usage

Checks configured in ``.pre-commit-config.yaml`` will be executed before each commit, and on-demand when calling ``pre-commit`` from the command line.


Design Patterns
---------------

Output and Error Handling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use ``pynitrokey.helpers.local_print`` for printing messages to the user.  This helper method also adds the output to the log file.

To report an error, use ``pynitrokey.helpers.local_critical`` or raise a ``pynitrokey.cli.exceptions.CliException`` (that uses ``local_critical`` internally).  Per default, this adds a support hint to the output that points the user to the log file.

Password Input
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Commands that require a password should first try to read the password from an environment variable.  If the environment variable is not set, they should prompt the user to enter the password.  Passwords must not be passed as a command-line argument.
